# ResistancePredictorTool
This tool was developed as part of the University of Oxford MBiol FHS Part II project, 2022-23. Candidate number: 1043649.

This repository contains the script (parts 1 & 2) for the predictor tool. 

The first part of the tool, 'predictortool_par1.py', defines a database of motifs (short sequences of user-defined length that surround the amino acid position of interest, which is specified by the user). The script is run using Python and requires an input FASTA file containing all known unique allele sequences for the gene of interest which can be downloaded from PubMLST (https://pubmlst.org ; for Neisseria as used in the example data, https://pubmlst.org/bigsdb?db=pubmlst_neisseria_seqdef&page=alleleQuery). 

The second part of the tool, 'predictortool_part2.txt', performs a BLAST search against this database to identify the mutation present at the site of interest in the query sequence, and from this make a prediction of the phenotype. The commands in the file are copied into and run using Terminal/Command-line; the required input files are the database FASTA file generated by part 1 of the tool, and the FASTA file of the query sequence. 

Additional downloads are required to reproduce this tool on the user's computer (Miniconda or Anaconda to install Python packages; NCBI BLAST+ to query the sequence of interest). The tool is in the process of being integrated into PubMLST, which will remove the need for access to the user's local computer and combine parts 1 and 2 so all steps of the script are automatically run consecutively.

Example data and instructions for the Neisseria gonorrhoeae GyrA_91 mutation (prediction of ciprofloxacin resistance) can be found under 'RPTexample_instructions.txt', 'gyrAuniquealleles.fas', 'gyrAmotifs.fas', and 'WHOYgyrA.fas'. 
